README.md, before:

# BodyPartIndex.py
Python wrapper library for standard set of body parts for tagging artifacts in medical imaging informatics (see https://www.anatomiclocations.org).

## Installation 

> Pending

Will soon be possible to install from PyPI:

```console
pip install body_part_index
```

# `BodyPartIndex` (Scenarios)

## How to open the library?

To open the library, you first need to import it into your project. Then, you can use the `BodyPartIndex` object.

```python
import requests, json
from body_part_index import BodyPartIndex, BodyPart, BODY_PART_INDEX_DATA_URL

# Import data distributed with the package
index = BodyPartIndex()


# OR import data from the latest version on the web
if (r := requests.get(BODY_PART_INDEX_DATA_URL)).status_code == requests.codes.ok:
    index = BodyPartIndex(json_data=json.loads(r.text))

# OR Open a local data file
index = BodyPartIndex(json_filename='body_parts.json')
```

## How to use a local JSON file of body parts?

> pending

## How to get a particular body part by RadLex ID, SNOMED, or another code?

```python
index = BodyPartIndex(json_filename='body_parts.json')
bodyPart = index.get('RID294')
bodyPart2 = index.get('265256') # FMA code
# TODO: bodyPart3 = index.get('THX1138') # Local code
```

The function returns a `BodyPart` object.

## How to get a particular body part by system/code?

```python
index = BodyPartIndex(json_filename='body_parts.json')
body_part: BodyPart = index.get_by_code(Code('SNOMED', '818983003'))
```

## How to search for body parts based on names or synonyms?

The `search` function will return all the BodyParts that match a specific search value.

```python
index = BodyPartIndex(json_filename='body_parts.json')
bodyPart = index.search('adnexa')
```

# `BodyPart` (Scenarios)

## What can you get from a `BodyPart`?

```python
index = BodyPartIndex(json_filename='body_parts.json')
bodyPart = index.get('RID294')
bodyPart.description    # "uterine adnexa"
bodyPart.sex_specific   # "Female"
bodyPart.synonyms       # ["adnexa"]
bodyPart.contained_by   # BodyPart(radlex_id='RID2507', description='pelvis', ...)
bodyPart.part_of        # BodyPart(radlex_id='RID270', description='female genital system', ...)
bodyPart.codes          # [ Code(system='SNOMED', 'code=''), Code(...), Code(...) ]
```

## How to deal with sided body parts?

For cases where the body part is sided, the index contains three versions: an unsided version, a left-sided version, 
and a right-sided version. All of these are aware of each other.

```python
index = BodyPartIndex(json_filename='body_parts.json')
bodyPart = index.get('RID294') # uterine adnexa (side not specified)
# From the unsided version, get the right- and left-sided versions
right = bodyPart.right     # BodyPart(radlex_id='RID294_RID5825', description='right uterine adnexa', ...)
left  = bodyPart.left      # BodyPart(radlex_id='RID294_RID5824', description='left uterine adnexa', ...)
# From either sided versions, can get back to the unsided or to the other side
right.unsided == body_part # True
left.right    == right     # True
```
## How to determine if one body part is contained by another?

## How to get the contained children of a body part?

Commit message:

Added is_contained() function
Added is_contained function to body_part.py
Added test_is_contained to test_body_part.py
Added usage example to README.md

README.md, after:

# BodyPartIndex.py
Python wrapper library for standard set of body parts for tagging artifacts in medical imaging informatics (see https://www.anatomiclocations.org).

## Installation 

> Pending

Will soon be possible to install from PyPI:

```console
pip install body_part_index
```

# `BodyPartIndex` (Scenarios)

## How to open the library?

To open the library, you first need to import it into your project. Then, you can use the `BodyPartIndex` object.

```python
import requests, json
from body_part_index import BodyPartIndex, BodyPart, BODY_PART_INDEX_DATA_URL

# Import data distributed with the package
index = BodyPartIndex()


# OR import data from the latest version on the web
if (r := requests.get(BODY_PART_INDEX_DATA_URL)).status_code == requests.codes.ok:
    index = BodyPartIndex(json_data=json.loads(r.text))

# OR Open a local data file
index = BodyPartIndex(json_filename='body_parts.json')
```

## How to use a local JSON file of body parts?

> pending

## How to get a particular body part by RadLex ID, SNOMED, or another code?

```python
index = BodyPartIndex(json_filename='body_parts.json')
bodyPart = index.get('RID294')
bodyPart2 = index.get('265256') # FMA code
# TODO: bodyPart3 = index.get('THX1138') # Local code
```

The function returns a `BodyPart` object.

## How to get a particular body part by system/code?

```python
index = BodyPartIndex(json_filename='body_parts.json')
body_part: BodyPart = index.get_by_code(Code('SNOMED', '818983003'))
```

## How to search for body parts based on names or synonyms?

The `search` function will return all the BodyParts that match a specific search value.

```python
index = BodyPartIndex(json_filename='body_parts.json')
bodyPart = index.search('adnexa')
```

# `BodyPart` (Scenarios)

## What can you get from a `BodyPart`?

```python
index = BodyPartIndex(json_filename='body_parts.json')
bodyPart = index.get('RID294')
bodyPart.description    # "uterine adnexa"
bodyPart.sex_specific   # "Female"
bodyPart.synonyms       # ["adnexa"]
bodyPart.contained_by   # BodyPart(radlex_id='RID2507', description='pelvis', ...)
bodyPart.part_of        # BodyPart(radlex_id='RID270', description='female genital system', ...)
bodyPart.codes          # [ Code(system='SNOMED', 'code=''), Code(...), Code(...) ]
```

## How to deal with sided body parts?

For cases where the body part is sided, the index contains three versions: an unsided version, a left-sided version, 
and a right-sided version. All of these are aware of each other.

```python
index = BodyPartIndex(json_filename='body_parts.json')
bodyPart = index.get('RID294') # uterine adnexa (side not specified)
# From the unsided version, get the right- and left-sided versions
right = bodyPart.right     # BodyPart(radlex_id='RID294_RID5825', description='right uterine adnexa', ...)
left  = bodyPart.left      # BodyPart(radlex_id='RID294_RID5824', description='left uterine adnexa', ...)
# From either sided versions, can get back to the unsided or to the other side
right.unsided == body_part # True
left.right    == right     # True
```
## How to determine if one body part is contained by another?

To determine if a one body part is contained by another, use the `is_contained` function.

```python
index = BodyPartIndex(json_filename='body_parts.json')
bodyPart1 = index.get('RID294') # uterine adnexa (side not specified)
bodyPart2 = index.get('RID39569') # whole body
is_contained = bodyPart1.is_contained(bodyPart2)
```

## How to get the contained children of a body part?
